README.md, before:

# Embedded Software

Embedded Software Department General Documentation Repository

## 0. Developer Environments

- All developer environment setup documentation is in
  the [`/devenvs` directory](https://github.com/OntarioTechRacing/embedded/tree/main/devenvs)
    - The "home" page document for all developer environments is in the home
      directory [`EMBEDDED_DEV_ENV.md` markdown](https://github.com/OntarioTechRacing/embedded/blob/main/EMBEDDED_DEV_ENV.md)

## 1. Datasheets

- All datasheets are stored on
  the [OTR Embedded Software Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0AHPA2ZoOBCtSUk9PVA)

## 2. GitHub Repo Setup

- Templates for `.gitignore` files in the [`/gitignores` directory](https://github.com/OntarioTechRacing/embedded/tree/main/gitignores)

## 3. Reference / Example Documentation

- [Examples](https://github.com/OntarioTechRacing/embedded/tree/main/examples)

## 4. Archival & Tech Support

- [Case Studies](https://github.com/OntarioTechRacing/embedded/blob/main/case_studies.md)
- [ACE5030 PC Documentation](https://github.com/OntarioTechRacing/embedded/blob/main/ACE5030_PC_README.md)

Commit message:

Update README.md and edit otr_embedded_systems_workflow.md

README.md, after:

# Embedded Software

Embedded Software Department General Documentation Repository

## 0. Developer Workflows & Environments

- Workflow documentation is in the `/workflow`
  directory → [`otr_embedded_systems_workflow.md` markdown](https://github.com/OntarioTechRacing/embedded/blob/main/workflow/otr_embedded_systems_workflow.md)
- All developer environment setup documentation is in
  the [`/devenvs` directory](https://github.com/OntarioTechRacing/embedded/tree/main/devenvs)
    - The "home" page document for all developer environments is in the home
      directory [`EMBEDDED_DEV_ENV.md` markdown](https://github.com/OntarioTechRacing/embedded/blob/main/EMBEDDED_DEV_ENV.md)

## 1. Datasheets

- All datasheets are stored on
  the [OTR Embedded Software Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0AHPA2ZoOBCtSUk9PVA)

## 2. GitHub Repo Setup

- Templates for `.gitignore` files in
  the [`/gitignores` directory](https://github.com/OntarioTechRacing/embedded/tree/main/gitignores)

## 3. Reference / Example Documentation

- [Examples](https://github.com/OntarioTechRacing/embedded/tree/main/examples)

## 4. Archival & Tech Support

- [Case Studies](https://github.com/OntarioTechRacing/embedded/blob/main/case_studies.md)
- [ACE5030 PC Documentation](https://github.com/OntarioTechRacing/embedded/blob/main/ACE5030_PC_README.md)
