devenvs/0_general_dev_env.md, before:

# Ontario Tech Racing: Embedded Software - General Developer Environment

## Accounts

### [GitHub](https://github.com/)*

- Students can register for the [GitHub Student Developer Pack](https://education.github.com/pack)

---

## Resources

- [Mbed](https://os.mbed.com/) for board pin-outs and documentation
    - Particularly nice for STM32 Nucleo board pin-outs
- [CAN Timing Calculator](http://www.bittiming.can-wiki.info/) for CAN bus clock configuration

---

## Software Installs

### [AnyDesk](https://anydesk.com) (Recommended)

- **Remote access tool for Ontario Tech Racing's computer resources**

### [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)*

- **Ontario Tech Racing: Embedded Software department's choice for version control**

### [GitHub Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/) (Recommended)

- **Basically just Git with a GUI**

### [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) only for macOS*

- **Package manager for macOS**

### [Saleae Logic 2](https://www.saleae.com/downloads/) (Recommended)

- Saleae logic analyzer software

Commit message:

Move dev tools to 0_general_dev_env.md and add more docs

devenvs/0_general_dev_env.md, after:

# Ontario Tech Racing: Embedded Software - General Developer Environment

## Accounts

### [GitHub](https://github.com/)*

- Students can register for the [GitHub Student Developer Pack](https://education.github.com/pack)

---

## Resources

- [Mbed](https://os.mbed.com/) for board pin-outs and documentation
    - Particularly nice for STM32 Nucleo board pin-outs
- [CAN Timing Calculator](http://www.bittiming.can-wiki.info/) for CAN bus clock configuration

---

## Software Installs

### [AnyDesk](https://anydesk.com) (Recommended)

- **Remote access tool for Ontario Tech Racing's computer resources**

### [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)*

- **Ontario Tech Racing: Embedded Software department's choice for version control**

### [GitHub Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/) (Recommended)

- **Basically just Git with a GUI**

### [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) only for macOS*

- **Package manager for macOS**

---

## Hardware & Equipment

### PEAK [PCAN-USB](https://www.peak-system.com/PCAN-USB.199.0.html?&L=1)

- **For CAN communication testing, mostly used with BUSMASTER software**
- [PEAK APIs found here](https://www.peak-system.com/Software.68.0.html?&L=1)
- See [can_bus_dev_tools.md](..%2Fdevenvs%2Fcan_bus_dev_tools.md)

### Saleae Logic Analyzer

- **Logic analyzer for all the things**
- For FSAE and budget restrictions, the recommendation
  is: [Saleae Logic 8](https://cad.saleae.com/products/saleae-logic-8)
    - Requires software: [Saleae Logic 2](https://www.saleae.com/downloads/)

### SEGGER JLink

- **Standard for debug and program flashing**
- For FSAE and budget restrictions, the recommendations
  are: [J-Link EDU](https://www.segger.com/products/debug-probes/j-link/models/j-link-edu/)
  and/or [J-Link EDU Mini](https://www.segger.com/products/debug-probes/j-link/models/j-link-edu-mini/)
    - Requires
      software: [JLink Software](https://www.segger.com/downloads/jlink#J-LinkSoftwareAndDocumentationPack)

### STLINK

- STM32 programmer and debugger
