devenvs/nxp_s32_design_studio.md, before:

# Ontario Tech Racing: Embedded Software - NXP S32 Design Studio Developer Environment Setup

The following documentation details how to set up NXP's
official [S32 Design Studio](https://www.nxp.com/design/design-center/software/development-software/s32-design-studio-ide:S32-DESIGN-STUDIO-IDE)
IDEs.

3 main versions are provided: S32, ARM and Power Architecture.

![MATLAB NXP S32DesignStudio Versions.png](pictures%2Fnxp%2FMATLAB%20NXP%20S32DesignStudio%20Versions.png)

---

## Software Installs

### [S32 Design Studio for S32 Platform](https://www.nxp.com/design/design-center/software/development-software/s32-design-studio-ide/s32-design-studio-for-s32-platform:S32DS-S32PLATFORM)* only for Windows and Linux

- As of writing (2023-12-30), the recommended version is `3.5` as it has a simple `.exe`
  Windows installation and also supports Linux

![MATLAB NXP S32DesignStudio S32 Page.png](pictures%2Fnxp%2FMATLAB%20NXP%20S32DesignStudio%20S32%20Page.png)

### [S32 Software Development Kit for S32K1 (RTM)](https://www.nxp.com/design/design-center/software/development-software/s32-sdk/s32-software-development-kit-for-s32k1:S32SDK-ARMK1)* only for Windows

- These are the extra drivers and additional files required for the actual design studio to work

![MATLAB NXP S32DesignStudio RTM Page.png](pictures%2Fnxp%2FMATLAB%20NXP%20S32DesignStudio%20RTM%20Page.png)

### [S32 Design Studio for ARM Version](https://www.nxp.com/design/design-center/software/development-software/s32-design-studio-ide/s32-design-studio-for-arm:S32DS-ARM) (Suggested) only for Windows and Linux

![MATLAB NXP S32DesignStudio ARM Page.png](pictures%2Fnxp%2FMATLAB%20NXP%20S32DesignStudio%20ARM%20Page.png)

---

Commit message:

Add note about license keys

devenvs/nxp_s32_design_studio.md, after:

# Ontario Tech Racing: Embedded Software - NXP S32 Design Studio Developer Environment Setup

The following documentation details how to set up NXP's
official [S32 Design Studio](https://www.nxp.com/design/design-center/software/development-software/s32-design-studio-ide:S32-DESIGN-STUDIO-IDE)
IDEs.

3 main versions are provided: S32, ARM and Power Architecture.

![MATLAB NXP S32DesignStudio Versions.png](pictures%2Fnxp%2FMATLAB%20NXP%20S32DesignStudio%20Versions.png)

---

## Software Installs

> **_Note that all majority, if not all, these NXP software applications will require a license key.
Typically, it is generated on the same portal for downloads, however for these applications, license
keys may be sent via email._**

### [S32 Design Studio for S32 Platform](https://www.nxp.com/design/design-center/software/development-software/s32-design-studio-ide/s32-design-studio-for-s32-platform:S32DS-S32PLATFORM)* only for Windows and Linux

- As of writing (2023-12-30), the recommended version is `3.5` as it has a simple `.exe`
  Windows installation and also supports Linux

![MATLAB NXP S32DesignStudio S32 Page.png](pictures%2Fnxp%2FMATLAB%20NXP%20S32DesignStudio%20S32%20Page.png)

### [S32 Software Development Kit for S32K1 (RTM)](https://www.nxp.com/design/design-center/software/development-software/s32-sdk/s32-software-development-kit-for-s32k1:S32SDK-ARMK1)* only for Windows

- These are the extra drivers and additional files required for the actual design studio to work

![MATLAB NXP S32DesignStudio RTM Page.png](pictures%2Fnxp%2FMATLAB%20NXP%20S32DesignStudio%20RTM%20Page.png)

### [S32 Design Studio for ARM Version](https://www.nxp.com/design/design-center/software/development-software/s32-design-studio-ide/s32-design-studio-for-arm:S32DS-ARM) (Suggested) only for Windows and Linux

![MATLAB NXP S32DesignStudio ARM Page.png](pictures%2Fnxp%2FMATLAB%20NXP%20S32DesignStudio%20ARM%20Page.png)

---
